# Blackbox-for-LMV
This project is a demonstration of how a black box would function in a car. A simple microcontroller would be connected to the ECU unit for logging data. It also contains protocols for drowsiness detection, where the eye-to-ear ratio is measured to check for drowsiness. Potentiometers served as inputs to different parameters in this project.
Parameters like Speed, Brake Pressure, Gyroscope, Engine Temperature, Steering, and Impact intensity were taken into account. They are recorded once every second and marked with a timestamp for synchronicity. A metric for measuring severity could also be added.
A Raspberry Pi Pico was used for this project. A limitation of that was access to only 3 ADC pins. To overcome this, a system was added where only 3 inputs can be read at a time. This switching is done onboard the pico, and diodes are used to isolate the potentiometers from each other.
A facial recognition system was also implemented on the system (not onboard the pico), and it measured the EAR ratio with the synchronised timestamp to return the drowsiness status. A Python script was written to measure drowsiness, collect the data from the pico, and relay the data through UART and record this data in an Excel sheet. 
To implement the local Python code, the requirements are: pyserial, pandas, opencv-python, scipy, and face utils libraries. You also need the shape_predictor_68_face_landmarks.dat dataset to run this. You can find it online on GitHub, like I did.
The potentiometers are connected in a way that all 6 potentiometers are connected to 6 Digital pins and ground. Each wiper of the potentiometer is connected to a diode in forward bias, which then connects to the ADC input. Their pins are isolated from each other, therefore not varying their resistance relatively to each other. 2 Wipers of 2 Potentiometers are connected to one ADC pin.
